So one of the these you should
probably do is say, you know what?
Really, we're only showing avatar, and
the person's text, and nothing else.
But we are now sending the GitHub,
the Twitter, and everything else in there.
So this is where you can get into kind
of this higher level optimization and
realize like I'm probably sending
too much data to the client, right?
Because there is nothing
that binds to the GitHub,
and the Twitter, and the LinkedIn URL.
But because it's a property on an object
and that object has also avatar.
There's no choice for the system, but
to include the whole object, right?
Does that make sense what I'm saying?
>> Right, so maybe this is the scenario
where dataset is maybe smaller,
maybe 100 records or something.
But if you talk about the real data
where we are having thousands or
millions of rows.
>> Yes, so you have to implement some kind
of pagination, or something like that or
lazy fetching of data, etc.
That is no different In
other frameworks as well, so
we can't do magic all the way through.
But we did do a whole bunch of things
that I think are pretty useful out of
the box, right?
So many things that we could have
done out of the box we already did.
So we are only sending
the data that you need.
We're removing the data
that you don't need.
We are pre-rendering on a server,
we're sending only the JavaScript
that's actually needed, right?
So in this particular case, known as
the amount of JavaScript increase,
remember at the beginning,
we only had the filter and nothing else.
Now, obviously, we send the filter,
we send the framework, but now,
we also have to send the JSX.
Now, we are like, yeah, because you
are messing with this filter over here.
We have no choice, but
to start sending to JSX as well.
And so we send the JSX, and
then there's some other files which should
get tree shaken once the bundler
kind of runs through all of it.
Actually, I think this is because
I need to restart the beat.
Yeah, so the number of items gets longer,
because you had to do more things.
But as a developer, you didn't have to
think about it, it was just automatic.
And it's still only a tiny portion
of the overall application, right?
The other thing to keep in
mind is this is dev mode.
So every single fetch is a separate
thing and you could get into waterfall.
In production, we're gonna talk about
later, we bundle things together.
And so the waterfall effect won't happen,
and also if it did,
the service worker will save you from it.
Because it wouldn't be
a separate request and
we're all to be prefetching becoming
out of the cache and so on.
So there's a lot of other things to
discuss about how this thing works in
production.
But the thing to understand at this point
is that we can lazy fetch everything in
a very fine grained thing.
So for example, the layout which
we talked about earlier, right,
this file, never made it to the client.
And this file not only this file
never made it to the client.
But also the QwikCityProvider which
is the QwikCity kinda the meta
framework also never
made it to the client.
So many things, many components that
are in here, declared and written,
never made it to the client.
And it's kind of the point and
the beauty of Qwik is that as a developer
you don't have to think about it.
I just write my applications
that I've always written and
a whole bunch of stuff just
never shows up on the client.
>> Picking up where we left off,
you were talking about,
because you did a filter
that exposes the object.
And then the object has to get
in line to the JSON, okay?
And so what I wanna understand is,
what is the guard against that?
Do you map, and then filter, or
is there another technique that you use?
>> Right, so the problem here is,
let's look at myself over here, right?
So I'm here,
I'm serializing the GitHub URL,
the Twitter URL and the LinkedIn URL
even though it is not here.
And the reason for
that is because the object is reachable.
And so while it's not in the UI right now,
maybe I could change something in
the UI and it becomes visible, right?
So the system just cannot guess,
it knows that it's not used right now.
But it could be used in the future
when you modify something, right?
So as long as an object
is reachable somehow,
that object has to be fully serialized.
And so in this particular case,
we have additional information
that the system doesn't have.
And we know that our UI will never,
ever render the GitHub, for
example, and so
we can do a smaller object.
So let's go back to our index.tsx.
And so right now,
we're just returning contacts.
Let's just run a map through that.
And so the map is, So
what we need to do is,
we need the name, right?
So it's a c.name, for the next step,
we're also gonna need the ID.
So I'm just gonna include it here and
we also need the avatar, Right?
Now, this is gonna come, it should
complain, because, I see the problems,
the premise here.
Now, this is gonna complain,
if I can get my semicolons right.
Why is it not complaining TypeScript?
Why are you not helping me?
TypeScript should complain that
this is no longer a contact array,
this is not a smaller thing.
So let's make a smaller object,
not sure why the TypeScript is not.
Okay, so I have a simpler object,
which is the,
I'm gonna call it simple context and
I'm gonna have a simple contact array.
What?
Is not assignable?
Because avatar is a question,
that's weird.
Okay, the avatar is optional, okay.
So now, it's a subset, right?
And so now, the nice thing here,
is notice that the endpoint knows that
it's of type simple contact, right?
And when we get to here, we know that
we have array of simple contact, right?
And so
we can't even access this particular data.
So you're kind of getting type safety for
free, right?
There's other libraries
out there like tRPC,
which kinda give you this
in the existing systems.
But it's kind of just for free in quick,
because of how everything just flows over.
Now, because we filtered it out
at the server, if we go and
see what's serialized, we see that
there's a lot less data, right?
We see that we have our name and
we have our image URL, but
we don't have anything else available,
right?
So this is how you kind of deal with that.